
I met with few students during the office hour and exchanged emails with others about the assignment. I thought some guidelines and FAQ will be helpful. 

Create a system* to help you remember an event* or specific memory. 

*System can mean set of procedures or process. I used the word system broadly, in order to avoid using specific words like 'design', 'rule' or 'game.' System can encompass all the meanings and its variations: structure, control, boundary and interface. 

I'm especially interested in systemic approach to memory. Recording every conscious moment with video camera may be one technical solution, but it's a rather crude system. Someone designing system with that technology will need to think about sorting and tagging, as well as preservation and deletion of data for their desired purpose. So, think of your system before technology. Read this [interesting article](http://www.technologyreview.com/review/528076/my-life-logged/) that reflect on potential and limits of life logging technology. 

*Event can mean any event from personal and private as well as shared, public, and collective memory. Also, events are often remembered as a combination of personal and shared memory, and as the constellation of memories about person, object, place, time and etc. 

Few students asked "can it be this or that memory?" or "how about an event that happens over extended period of time (such as first week of school)." I think all of your questions are valid and I'm most likely to say "of course it can." 

The project may take any form as long as it has aspects of computation* and participation*.

*My definition of computation is very broad. While not all technology is computational, for example steam engine do not perform arithmetics or hold data, but much of contemporary devices are built around computational function. Computation, in it's bare nature, is a systemic way of information processing, often through software and hardware. Computation is not limited to code or laptops or smart phones. The most primitive definition of computer is calculator meets writing pad. Early computation was done through [humans](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_computer) as well as [mechanical devices](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mechanical_computer). 

Also feel free to stretch the definition of computation. For example chess is a game based on set of rules and objective, where the players participation complete its structure. Chess in itself is not computational and playing a game of chess doesn't really help one remember specific memory (other than memory one needs in order to play a game of chess). However, you can easily imagine a hacked version of chess with specific constraints and objective that may as well serve as useful system to help remember (something/someone). Another example may be clever appropriation of [mnemonic](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mnemonic), like numbering system or algorithm that help remember complex information, in order to remember personal memories that can not be easily recalled .  

*Aspect of participation is asked in order to avoid the systems becoming extremely esoteric or private. It's a broad term and you can be the participant (user/player/ contributor) for your system. If your system is complex and take long time, you can make a short video clip of its operation, or if it's simple and takes little time, we can try using it during the class. 
 
Consider this assignment as an open ended proposition to think about systems and memory, not necessarily an outcome driven project. On that note, I'm not concerned about 'finished' condition of the project or quantity of examples and participation. I'm more interested in your ideas and the way you will share them through the project. 

It's possible that your first and ongoing assignment of 'creating archive for the class' may become part of this assignment or vice versa. Keep in mind archives are meant to be public, permanent and accessible, while this assignment does not have to be. 

* Some of the books are [reserved](bit.ly/1ykji6P) at the Bobst library. 

Have a great weekend!