**To remember and forget #1**

It was nice to meet you all yesterday.

Here are the [slides](https://speakerdeck.com/tchoi8/to-remember-and-forget-lecture-1) and lecture [notes](https://hackpad.com/To-remember-and-forget-Lecture-1-KBg6fVW8qmq). At some point they will be archived in this [page](https://github.com/tchoi8/RememberAndForget/tree/master/lecture).
Feel free to comment on the lecture notes, add new content and ask questions. 
Also, I can send you audio recording if you want it. 

Please enjoy these [readings](https://github.com/tchoi8/RememberAndForget/tree/master/reading) that I mentioned during the class. We will review the topic of remembering, forgetting in relation to archive and archival technology in the beginning of next class.
 
Recommended reading for week #1 
I would start with Borges' Funes, read few chapters from Benjamin's Berlin childhood around 1900. And then I will read the chapter EXERGUE in Derrdia's Archive Fever, especially page 16~19 which deals with Mystic Writing Pad, archive and technology. Book review of Archive fever by Brien Brothman is a great introduction to Archive Fever. And check out other readings in the folder and linked on the lecture notes. Manoff's Theories of the Archives is a wonderful overview of archive in contemporary practice and historical context. 

I'm putting together a required reading list for next two sessions. Meanwhile, watch this video of Eric Kandel's lecture before next class.   

If you have any questions about the assignment, "Create a unique archiving system for your participation in the class", feel free to email me. Like I said, it can be a custom platform or a combination of available software and service. I wish you can find a suitable archiving system for your work and participation in this class. We will briefly talk about everyone's method next class, so it will be nice to have the notes from the first class and readings accessible by then.  And like good archive, it can be more than just a depository of documents and artifacts. 

Taeyoon 